UPDATE: Vigil honors teen slain in shooting that injured four others
NODATE
Hide caption Police work the scene of a shooting at 11th and Castle streets Sunday in Wilmington. KEN BLEVINS/STARNEWS
The shooting occurred around 11:30, police said. No information is available on the condition of the victims.
WILMINGTON -- With his gaze locked on the sidewalk beneath his feet, Vern Ross stood in the same spot where his teen son, Shane Simpson, was slain hours earlier, and pled for an end to the violence.
"My son is lost and I just don't want it to happen to someone else," he told the crowd assembled around him for a candlelight vigil Sunday evening. "We've got to stop this."
Shane and four others were at the corner of 11th and Castle streets Sunday when the occupants of a dark-colored sedan drove past and opened fire about 11:15 a.m., said Linda Rawley, Wilmington Police Department spokeswoman.
Shane was pronounced dead at the scene. The four other men sustained non-life-threatening injuries and were taken to New Hanover Regional Medical Center. Rawley said their conditions were unknown Sunday.
As of Sunday evening, no arrests had been made.
During the candlelight vigil at 6 p.m., Ross spoke of his "cheerful" 16-year-old, killed in what police are calling a gang-related shooting.
Nearly 50 people gathered with a tearful Ross to pay tribute to the New Hanover High School student.
"He was a loving guy, a caring and respectful guy," Ross said after the vigil. "He was a guy that grew up in the church and with a loving family. A really good guy. He just got caught up in the wrong time and the wrong situation."
Ross said his son was a gifted boxer, having competed in several title fights in and around Wilmington. According to New Hanover County birth records, Shane would have turned 17 on Jan. 15.
Talking to the crowd, the grieving father, a Wilmington native who grew up in the Creekwood area, admitted to his "bad boy" past. But he vowed that he would not seek revenge because of "God's grace and mercy."
"There is not going to be a retaliation from me, I'm hoping that Wilmington's finest will put a stop to this and the community will unite together to stop this violence," Ross told the crowd.
Kevin Spears, a friend of Ross', organized the vigil and said he hoped it will shine a light on the issue of escalating violence.
"I think this is our time, our chance, our opportunity to stand against this violence," Spears told the crowd. "Not just today or the next week. Not just for T-shirts that say, 'Rest in peace.' I'm talking about from here on out. It is just a small group of people making our town look horrible."
Authorities are searching for one person of interest in the shooting, Rawley said.
Wilmington Police Chief Ralph Evangelous attended Sunday's vigil and said they were "making some movement on this incident." He also echoed Ross and Spears' pleas for the violence to stop.
Police spent nearly three hours surveying the scene, maneuvering around at least 19 evidence markers strewn across Castle Street. Several detectives hovered over the cordoned-off street corner where Shane's body fell. About 2:30 p.m. the body was removed from the scene, strategically shielded from the view of bystanders.
Several dozen people lingered around the area as police worked during the day. Many spoke of the tragic nature of the shooting of such a young man, so close to the holidays.
Following the shooting, police responded to two more reports of shot fired -- one at the intersection of 17th Street and Medical Center Drive, and another near the intersection of Graham Street and Sumter Drive. Cpl. Leslie Irving with the WPD said there were no injuries or property damage in those incidents.
With no eyewitnesses or descriptions of the vehicles, Irving said it is unknown whether this gunfire was related to the shooting on Castle Street.
Anyone with information on the shootings is asked to call the Wilmington Police Department at 910-343-3609 or text your info to Text-A-Tip.
Contact Hunter Ingram at 910-343-2327 or Hunter.Ingram@StarNewsOnline.com.